Release note v10.9.0 (#163)
mia-platform/documentation: docs/release-notes/platform_10-9-0_releasenotes.md

---
id: v10.9.0
title: Version 10.9.0 Release Notes
sidebar_label: v10.9.0
image: "img/release-note-link-preview.png"
---

_May 04, 2023_

## Console

### New Features

> #### Selection of default providers for the Company's projects

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Selection of default Providers for the Company's Projects
```

> Within the Providers section in the Company Overview area it is now possible to find a new feature that allows the user with Company Owner permissions to be able to set the Default providers that will use all the new projects created on the respective company.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the Company Overview area, inside the Providers section, in it is now possible to find a new feature that allows the user with Company Owner permissions to be able to set the Default Providers that will be used in all the new Projects created in the respective Company.
```

![Default Providers Selection](./img/v10.9_defaultProviders.png)

> This will enhance the governance for every Company Owner for company's projects and give better control over the management of company tools.
> The provider for each capability (Git Provider, CI/CD and Secret Manager) can always be changed in any moment via CMS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will enhance the governance of Company Owners on all the Projects of their Companies, granting them better control over the management of company tools.
The Provider for each capability (Git Provider, CI/CD and Secret Manager) can always be changed at any moment via CMS.
```

For more information, [go to the documentation](/development_suite/set-up-infrastructure/configure-provider.mdx)

#### GitHub Actions as CI/CD tool in Console

> Starting with this version, the console supports GitHub Actions as a CI/CD tool.
> 
> Within the Providers section accessible through the Company Overview area you can now configure a GitHub provider as a CI/CD tool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starting with this version, Mia-Platform Console supports GitHub Actions as a CI/CD tool.

Within the Providers section, accessible through the Company Overview area, you can now configure a GitHub provider as a CI/CD tool.
```

For more information, [go to the documentation](/development_suite/deploy/.mdx)

#### Managing Service Accounts at Console level

It is possible to create [Company-independent service accounts](TO-DO link) in case you need to give them privileges to perform [root-level operations](/development_suite/identity-and-access-management/console-levels-and-permission-management.md).

:::info
Only Console Super Users can [add](TO-DO link) or [delete](TO-DO link) Company independent service accounts, manageable exclusively at back-office level.
:::

### Bug Fix

This version addressed a few bugs, here is a comprehensive list:

* We fixed an issue in the creation of a template/example that prevented the Git repository owner name from being filled in with special characters.

## Fast Data

### New Features

The file picker of the DDL modal import now support `.sql` file 

### Improvements

> The console automatic aggregation generation now represents one to one relationship configuration as object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Console automatic aggregation generation now represents one-to-one relationship configuration as an object.
```

### Breaking Changes

#### Revamped Single View Trigger Generator
We're thrilled to announce the release of v.2.0.1 of the Single View Trigger Generator, one of the Fast Data component. In this release, we've given the component a complete overhaul to optimize its performance and streamline its functionality.

However, as with any major update, there are a few breaking changes to be aware of. We've renamed the `STRATEGIES_FOLDER` environment variable to `MANUAL_STRATEGIES_FOLDER` and the `CUSTOM_FUNCTIONS_FOLDER` environment variable to `TRIGGER_CUSTOM_FUNCTIONS_FOLDER`. We've also removed the `USE_AUTOMATIC` variable. Additionally, the `SINGLE_VIEW_NAME`,` ER_SCHEMA_FOLDER`, and `PROJECTION_CHANGES_SCHEMA_FOLDER` variables are now required. Check out the official documentation (TODO: add link)!

Do not forget to check out the [changelog](/runtime-suite/single-view-trigger-generator/changelog.md) for a full list of changes!

### Bug Fix

This version addressed a few bugs, here is a comprehensive list:

> * The Projections and the SoR are now deleted from the No-Code ERSchema if deleted from their console sections

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The Projections and the SoR are now deleted from the No-Code ERSchema if deleted from their Console sections
```

---
id: v10.9.0
title: Version 10.9.0 Release Notes
sidebar_label: v10.9.0
image: "img/release-note-link-preview.png"
---

_May 04, 2023_

## Console

### New Features

#### Selection of default providers for the Company's projects

Within the Providers section in the Company Overview area it is now possible to find a new feature that allows the user with Company Owner permissions to be able to set the Default providers that will use all the new projects created on the respective company.

![Default Providers Selection](./img/v10.9_defaultProvider.png)

This will enhance the governance for every Company Owner for company's projects and give better control over the management of company tools.
The provider for each capability (Git Provider, CI/CD and Secret Manager) can always be changed in any moment via CMS.

For more information, [go to the documentation](/development_suite/set-up-infrastructure/configure-provider.mdx).

#### GitHub Actions as CI/CD tool in Console

> Starting with this version, the console supports GitHub Actions as a CI/CD tool.
> 
> Within the Providers section accessible through the Company Overview area you can now configure a GitHub provider as a CI/CD tool and using it for the deployment of your workload.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starting with this version, Mia-Platform Console supports GitHub Actions as a CI/CD tool.

Within the Providers section, accessible through the Company Overview area, you can now configure a GitHub provider as a CI/CD tool and use it for the deployment of your workload.
```

> For more information, [go to the documentation](/development_suite/deploy/.mdx).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more information, [go to the documentation](/development_suite/deploy/deploy.mdx).
```
This link is broken. Did we mean the suggested one?
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/103102532/235952427-c282f294-f97c-4767-b62f-07f27cb90fb8.png)

#### Managing Service Accounts at Console level

It is possible to create Company-independent service accounts in case you need to give them privileges to perform [root-level operations](/development_suite/identity-and-access-management/console-levels-and-permission-management.md).

:::info
Only Console Super Users can add or delete Company independent service accounts, manageable exclusively at back-office level.
:::

### Bug Fix

This version addressed a few bugs, here is a comprehensive list:

* We fixed an issue in the creation of a template/example that prevented the Git repository owner name from being filled in with special characters.

## Fast Data

### New Features

The file picker of the DDL modal import now supports `.sql` file 

### Improvements

The Console automatic aggregation generation now represents one-to-one relationship configuration as an object.

### Breaking Changes

> #### Revamped Single View Trigger Generator
> We're thrilled to announce the release of v.2.0.1 of the Single View Trigger Generator, one of the Fast Data component. In this release, we've given the component a complete overhaul to optimize its performance and streamline its functionality.
> 
> However, as with any major update, there are a few breaking changes to be aware of. We've renamed the following environment variables to better clarify their purpose:
> - `STRATEGIES_FOLDER` → `MANUAL_STRATEGIES_FOLDER`
> - `CUSTOM_FUNCTIONS_FOLDER` → `TRIGGER_CUSTOM_FUNCTIONS_FOLDER`.
> We've also removed the `USE_AUTOMATIC` variable since the feature is now enabled in all the service configurations.  
> Furthermore, the following environment variables are now required:
> - `SINGLE_VIEW_NAME`
> - `ER_SCHEMA_FOLDER`
> - `PROJECTION_CHANGES_SCHEMA_FOLDER`
> 
> For more details on the service and its behavior, please check out the official [documentation](/fast_data/single_view_trigger_generator.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Revamped Single View Trigger Generator

We're thrilled to announce the release of v.2.0.1 of the Single View Trigger Generator, one of the Fast Data component. In this release, we've given the component a complete overhaul to optimize its performance and streamline its functionality.

However, as with any major update, there are a few breaking changes to be aware of. We've renamed the following environment variables to better clarify their purpose:
- `STRATEGIES_FOLDER` → `MANUAL_STRATEGIES_FOLDER`
- `CUSTOM_FUNCTIONS_FOLDER` → `TRIGGER_CUSTOM_FUNCTIONS_FOLDER`.
We've also removed the `USE_AUTOMATIC` variable since the feature is now enabled in all the service configurations.  
Furthermore, the following environment variables are now required:
- `SINGLE_VIEW_NAME`
- `ER_SCHEMA_FOLDER`
- `PROJECTION_CHANGES_SCHEMA_FOLDER`

For more details on the service and its behavior, please check out the official [documentation](/fast_data/single_view_trigger_generator.md).
```

### Bug Fix

This version addressed a few bugs, here is a comprehensive list:

* The Projections and the SoR are now deleted from the No-Code ERSchema if deleted from their Console sections
* The Single View Creator is not attachable to only one Single View
* Mongo operators are now properly interpolated in aggregations executed by the Single View Creator. This fix has been addressed in version 5.6.6 of the Single View Creator.

## Marketplace

> ### New Marketplace Components

Reviewer: should be removed if there are no new marketplace components

### Marketplace Updates

#### CRUD Service - v6.5.1

CRUD Service collection definition has been revised, so that now it possible to configure it through a JSON schema definition.
This new feature for the moment does not supersede the previous collection definition, albeit it is recommended to transition to the latter one.
To tap into this new functionality it is necessary to define a new property in the collections definition, which is `schema`.
This new property expects to receive a JSON schema as representation of the collection data model. Previous property `field` is still accepted, though
it has a lower priority with respect to the newer one.

Furthermore, the following MongoDB operators for `PATCH` action were introduced:

- [`$addToSet`](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/reference/operator/update/addToSet/) (v6.4.0)
- [`$pull`](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/reference/operator/update/pull/) (v6.5.0)

The full [changelog](/runtime_suite/crud-service/changelog.md) can be found in the plugin detail page.

## Backoffice - 1.3.9

> ### Bug Fix

Reviewer: should be removed

### New Features

> #### `bk-crud-client` allows to disable url writing
> 
> New property `reflectToUrl` allows to control whether `bk-crud-client` reflects its state to the URL with a `window.history.pushState`
> 
> #### New component `bk-layout-swap`
> 
> New component [`bk-layout-swap`](/business_suite/backoffice/components/misc.md#bk-layout-swap) is available. It performs a layout change listening to `layout/change` event. The payload of the event is the layout rendered by the component. It is bundled separately.
> 
> ### Bug Fix
> 
> #### Form components resolve lookups on creation
> 
> Form components correctly resolve lookups in initial values from `add-new` event payload

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### `bk-crud-client` allows to disable url writing

New property `reflectToUrl` allows to control whether `bk-crud-client` reflects its state to the URL with a `window.history.pushState`.

#### New component `bk-layout-swap`

New component [`bk-layout-swap`](/business_suite/backoffice/components/misc.md#bk-layout-swap) is available. It performs a layout change listening to `layout/change` event. The payload of the event is the layout rendered by the component. It is bundled separately.

### Bug Fix

#### Form components resolve lookups on creation

Form components correctly resolve lookups in initial values from `add-new` event payload.
```

* The CRUD endpoints in the Backoffice Configurator are now prefixed with `/v2`

## Fast Data

### Breaking Changes

#### Revamped Single View Trigger Generator

We're thrilled to announce the release of v2.0.1 of the Single View Trigger Generator, one of the Fast Data component. In this release, we've given the component a complete overhaul to optimize its performance and streamline its functionality.

However, there are a few breaking changes to be aware of when migrating to this new version. In particular, the following environment variables have been renamed to better clarify their purpose:

- `STRATEGIES_FOLDER` → `MANUAL_STRATEGIES_FOLDER`
- `CUSTOM_FUNCTIONS_FOLDER` → `TRIGGER_CUSTOM_FUNCTIONS_FOLDER`

We have also removed the `USE_AUTOMATIC` variable since the feature is now enabled in all the service configurations.  
Furthermore, the following environment variables are now required:

- `SINGLE_VIEW_NAME`
- `ER_SCHEMA_FOLDER`
- `PROJECTION_CHANGES_SCHEMA_FOLDER`

For more details on the service and its behavior, please check out the official [documentation](/fast_data/single_view_trigger_generator.md).

### New Features

> The file picker of the Projection DDL modal import, that can be used in the System of Record section, now supports `.sql` file 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The file picker of the Projection DDL modal import, that can be used in the System of Record section, now supports `.sql` file. 
```

---
id: v10.9.0
title: Version 10.9.0 Release Notes
sidebar_label: v10.9.0
image: "img/release-note-link-preview.png"
---

_May 04, 2023_

## Console

### New Features

#### Managing Service Accounts at Console level

It is possible to create [Company-independent service accounts](TO-DO link) in case you need to give them privileges to perform [root-level operations](/development_suite/identity-and-access-management/console-levels-and-permission-management.md).

:::info

> Only Console Super Users can [add](TO-DO link) or [delete](TO-DO link) Company independent service accounts, manageable exclusively at back-office level.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Only Console Super Users can [add](TO-DO link) or [delete](TO-DO link) Company independent service accounts, manageable exclusively at backoffice level.
```

:::

### Bug Fix

> This version addressed a few bugs, here is a comprehensive list:

Reviewer: if there's just one bug, I'd rephrase it

> * 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* We have solved a bug in the creation of a microservice that prevented the insertion of a Git repository owner with an underscore in its name
```

## Fast Data

### New Features

### Improvements

### Bug Fix

## Marketplace

### New Marketplace Components

### Marketplace Updates

## Backoffice

## How to update your Console

> For on-premise Console installations, please contact your Mia Platform referent to know how to use the `Helm chart version X.X.X`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For on-premise Console installations, please contact your Mia-Platform referent to know how to use the `Helm chart version X.X.X`.
```

---
id: v10.9.0
title: Version 10.9.0 Release Notes
sidebar_label: v10.9.0
image: "img/release-note-link-preview.png"
---

_May 04, 2023_

## Console

### New Features

#### Managing Service Accounts at Console level

It is possible to create [Company-independent service accounts](TO-DO link) in case you need to give them privileges to perform [root-level operations](/development_suite/identity-and-access-management/console-levels-and-permission-management.md).

:::info
Only Console Super Users can [add](TO-DO link) or [delete](TO-DO link) Company independent service accounts, manageable exclusively at back-office level.
:::

### Bug Fix

This version addressed a few bugs, here is a comprehensive list:

* 

## Fast Data

### New Features

> Support to .sql file type in the DDL modal import

Reviewer 4: @giuliowaitforitdavide let's rephrase it better, giving a more exhaustive explanation

Reviewer 5: Changed

### Improvements

> One to one relationships in aggregation as object instead of array.

Reviewer 4: @giuliowaitforitdavide let's rephrase it better, giving a more exhaustive explanation

Reviewer 5: Changed

### Breaking Changes

#### Revamped Single View Trigger Generator
We're thrilled to announce the release of v.2.0.1 of the Single View Trigger Generator, one of the Fast Data component. In this release, we've given the component a complete overhaul to optimize its performance and streamline its functionality.

> However, as with any major update, there are a few breaking changes to be aware of. We've renamed the `STRATEGIES_FOLDER` environment variable to `MANUAL_STRATEGIES_FOLDER` and the `CUSTOM_FUNCTIONS_FOLDER` environment variable to `TRIGGER_CUSTOM_FUNCTIONS_FOLDER`. We've also removed the `USE_AUTOMATIC` variable. Additionally, the `SINGLE_VIEW_NAME`,` ER_SCHEMA_FOLDER`, and `PROJECTION_CHANGES_SCHEMA_FOLDER` variables are now required. Check out the official documentation (TODO: add link)!

Reviewer 2: Ok for me. I'll wait for @TheRusCompass then

> Do not forget to check out the [changelog](/runtime-suite/single-view-trigger-generator/changelog.md) for a full list of changes!

Reviewer 6: The changelog is going to not be available anymore. Let's remove this sentence

Reviewer 5: Btw if we remove the CHANGELOD could we add that these changes refer to the single view trigger generator? I was confused from this as I thought these release notes impact my review of the fast data docs

Reviewer 2: I removed the changelog line :+1:

### Bug Fix

This version addressed a few bugs, here is a comprehensive list:

> * Projections and SoR for the no-code ERSchema still shown even if deleted

Reviewer 4: @giuliowaitforitdavide let's change the perspective here, writing what is possible to be done now without describing what was not possible before

Reviewer 5: Changed

> * Single View Creator that could be attached to more Single Views

Reviewer 4: @giuliowaitforitdavide let's change the perspective here, writing what is possible to be done now without describing what was not possible before

Reviewer 5: Changed
